>> Will Sentance: We had our two
prong facade functions, my goodness,
weren't they remarkable?
And if you remember,
I wanna just ask that question we asked
right before the break just one more time.
Which was, what is our clarification?
And I think it was, can anyone
remember one of the questions I asked?
Was it Todd, you asked?
Hold on, what would?
Yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 2: I guess when
that gets onto the call stack?
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, when does that
function that was delayed, deferred by
being attached to the promise
object on fulfillment array?
When does that function,
given that it's auto-triggered to run?
Does it just get great?
I mean it's in JavaScript, so does it
just go straight in the call stack?
No crazy to think, well,
we're gonna need to understand
the rules by which our promise deferred
functionality gets back into
JavaScript in order to be execute off.
You know what, get back on to
the call stack it's in JavaScript.
Get back on to the call stack
in order to be executed.
We're gonna see that here.
Let's just quickly reiterate here the then
method and functionality, what does it
say, then method and functionality
to call, yeah, the then method and
the functionality to call and completion
any code we want to run will return data.
The response data must be
added on the promise object
added using the then method to the hidden
property on fulfillment array.
Promise objects will automatically trigger
the attached function in that array to run
with its input being the response data
from the web browser feature from Twitter.
All right, here we go.
Let's see, this is the most complex
code we're gonna see today.
We'll see this afternoon but
this is one I have three functions here
in order to I try and minimize
the code and just get to the core.
But we need three here in order
to see the rules by which our
asynchronously deferred
code ends up being run.
And I will, by the way, finalize at
the end what this word asynchronous means.
I will say it right now.
It means doing code out of
order from when you saw it,
from when it was said to be done.
So when we see normal JavaScript code,
if a line says do the code,
I do it right then.
If the line says do the code,
Asynchronous says no, no,
no, JavaScript's gonna handle when
that functionality comes back in.
And it's gonna be out of order of
when you trigger the browser feature
that started its work.
And the associated functionality
is gonna come back in when that
background work is done.
No longer do we have our, we cannot leave
this line of code until we've finished on
it until we've moved to the next line.
Now we can actually have code
that's gonna be run after
all of our regular code is run.
Okay, so we're gonna see how all of
that plays out here line by line.
We've got our traditional ES5 and
earlier set time out with a function.
It's gonna be thrown down the web browser.
We've got our fetch call
with the two prongs.
With this side, and
with this code, and this diagram,
we're gonna see the entire map
of asynchronicity in JavaScript.
Okay, here we go, folks.
We're almost at the final hurdle.
Not quite.
Here we go.
Line one, into our global memory we
are going to store what, my friend Matt?
>> Speaker 2: The function display.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent, the function
>> Will Sentance: Display, there it is.
Saved into global memory.
Thank you Matt.
Now to Tod next line.
>> Speaker 2: The function print hello.
>> Will Sentance: Print hello.
Stored in global memory as well
declared and stored in memory.
Next line, Ryan,
what's it safe for us to do?
Clear the function block for
300 milliseconds or
300 milliseconds a block for
30 milliseconds.
I'd like to cut these bits for
over 300 milliseconds.
There it is.
That's a fresh block for 300 milliseconds.
And now things get interesting.
Now we get to our set timeout.
Is it doing anything interesting
in JavaScript, people?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Will Sentance: No, it's not,
this is one of the one-problem ones.
Actually, let's put up our web
browser over here, right over here.
Web browser.
We've got,
white is JavaScript engine and features.
And then you've got over here
we have network requests
was one of the web browser features built
in C++, definitely not in JavaScript.
And it's controlled from within JavaScript
by this amazing fetch facade function.
Then we had console.
We also had timer, a feature of the web
browser controlled by set time out.
But there's a whole
bunch of those we know.
Okay, so everything below here is going
to be not JavaScript but
our web browser features.
What else have I forgotten
from our main platform?
Dan, what am I forgetting from
my sort of main Java platform?
My-
>> Speaker 2: My favorite called stack.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
don't feel very cool stack.
Exactly, there it is.
There it is.
And we're executing code in global.
So there it is.
Well, not cool sack.
All right, into JavaScript
execution we've gone we've had on
display print hello block for
300 milliseconds at saving global memory.
Now we hit okay, raise your hand if
you wanna be the person who verbalizes
through, Ethan's been already our expert
on this, maybe we'll choose Ethan.
That verbalizes through this first
facade function set time out.
Raise your hand if wanna be the person
who mobilizes through this,
cuz I'm not looking around,
I can't really tell.
So, but I can't see Matt there.
Matt, tell me what's happening.
Anyone has raised a hand fantastic,
thank you.
But the only person that she feels mad.
Given my back was turned.
So yeah, Matt, set timeout,
where's its consequence?
>> Speaker 2: It's gonna go to the web
browser feature, the timer feature.
>> Will Sentance: Fantastic, fantastic.
Web browser feature.
>> Speaker 2: It's going to send it
the duration, the value of zero.
>> Will Sentance: Very nice.
>> Speaker 2: And
the function to run print hello.
>> Will Sentance: All right,
that was excellent.
That was very well communicated,
thank you.
Yeah, exactly.
There's our zero milliseconds.
And there's our function to
run on the completion of that.
Well, let's be more precise nowadays,
our function to add to,
>> Speaker 2: Call stack.
>> Will Sentance: The call stack
>> Speaker 2: Callback queue
>> Will Sentance: Callback queue up to
the callback queue on the zero
millisecond completion, exactly.
So let's set up a timer.
There it is.
Timer, zero milliseconds.
Complete at zero milliseconds everybody.
>> Speaker 2: True.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, exactly, yeah.
On completion,
what What do we want to have run?
What do we wanna have taken
back into JavaScript, Todd?
>> Speaker 2: Print hello.
>> Will Sentance: Print hello, exactly
at zero milliseconds is it complete
as you all said?
You bet it is.
It is complete, the timer on
completion we're going to call
Print, they should just tell them
go to go from front of monsters
if I'm currently moving on
the front screen of it.
No cools.
There it is.
print hello.
is going to be at that moment but
let's put it up right now.
Let's put it up right now.
Cool.
>> Will Sentance: Que.
There it is, call back queue.
So at zero milliseconds, it's complete.
Jeff, what's going to happen to that
print hello function on the call stack?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Will Sentance: No, callback queue.
Excellent Jeff.
At zero milliseconds.
Exactly.
Milliseconds.
We're gonna have print hello.
I'm sure it's gonna get to run almost
like almost immediately, right?
Yeah.
Send me all that cool stuff so soon.
We got is very earnest and
eager down here.
It's ready to go anthropomorphized.
Function is very excited.
It's almost I can't wait.
Ready to go off onto the call stack.
Set timeouts job was done when it set up
the timer and the background time his job
is done because it put the printer
low function in the callback queue.
Beautiful shout out to everybody
who verbalized says very nice.
We now plow on to the The toughee
we area gonna plow on
to at one millisecond.
And try to keep it as neat as possible.
Plow into it one millisecond.
Left-hand side Ethan, what are we doing
in the next line, left-hand side?
>> Speaker 2: Declare
the const future data.
>> Will Sentance: futureData, there it is,
futureData.
It is a two-pronged facade.
No it's not, it's going to have
the result of our fetch call,
its JavaScript consequence.
As the value of future data, because that
fetch call, that fetch facade function,
that fetch facade function is
a two-pronged facade function.
Look network request in the web
browser and stuff in JavaScript.
Let's look at it stuff in
JavaScript consequence.
So we're gonna call fetch.
There it is, with our just a string,
by the way to JavaScript is just a string.
Is there anyone that's
taken his data down to
the browser that it
becomes more meaningful?
What exactly is it?
Twitter twitter.com.
We're just going to shorten it slightly.
Yeah, there we go.
Okay, it's JavaScript consequence, is what
Dan what's his JavaScript consequence?
It creates a new promise.
Yeah, exactly returns out immediately,
which therefore gets stored on the left
hand side in this one millisecond
moment an object, special object.
Promise object, and that's gonna be
stored over here in future data.
And what are
>> Will Sentance: The automatic
properties on it, Dan?
>> Speaker 2: Its value and
>> Will Sentance: Unfulfilled which is,
which is what a array of exactly
an array right now an empty array but
it will be an array of function
spawned from done well said.
There it is.
They go to the array and
they value property and let's not forget.
That value property is soon
as it's updated, immediately
is going to trigger the function stored
in that array to automatically run.
Very nice, which is because if we,
and by the way.
This value property here I have a feeling
is going to be intimately connect
with the other consequence,
the other prong
from fetch which is speaking to
the network in the web browser.
And as soon as that's done, that value
that comes back the response object as
Kayla put it earlier,
is going to fill in that value property
Back in JavaScript which is going to
trigger automatically any functions in
that array with that value as the input
of that function, or those functions.
All right, perfect.
Let's now hand to the other my God,
let's now handle the other prong of fetch.
Blue pen, it's web browser stuff.
>> Will Sentance: So, just remind us,
Brayden, what is the web
browser feature that
gets sort of turned on.
>> Speaker 2: Network request.
>> Will Sentance: Network request.
Well done exactly.
Network request.
There it is.
down it comes, down it comes web browser,
here we go,
>> Will Sentance: My best posture,
network request.
All right, there we go.
It wouldn't be a hall pass talk.
There it is.
Now, we request, what info do we need for
it, Adam, at the back?
What info do we need for
that network request?
>> Speaker 2: The address.
>> Will Sentance: Yep,
we've got two parts of interest.
Anyone wanna tell me, Brayden?
>> Speaker 2: Domain.
>> Will Sentance: The domain name
and-
>> Speaker 2: Directory.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
the other part of, exactly,
the portion of it we wanna get data from.
So domain is Twitter .com,
path is /will/1, and it defaults to get.
And so at roughly 1 millisecond,
we start heading off to,
where shall we do this?
Maybe Hmm, we thought any off I
guess down to cube very small.
To Twitter's headquarters,
Twitter's HQ, look at that, far away.
There it is, with that of a message
saying hello, I need some new tweets,
so those tweets.
And we send that off at roughly.
Zero milliseconds.
Beautiful.
There it is.
And is it a complete at that point?
Do we have the data back, Dan?
No, we know we don't want
put exactly there it is.
But when it is complete,
warts Raise your hand.
You want to tell me what's gonna happen.
Back in JavaScript, what's our own
completion back in JavaScript?
He was going to show you a pizza please.
The returned object is entered into
the value property of your data.
Very, very nice.
We're going to keep it simple and just say
a string, the actual tweet itself, but
yeah, exactly.
That's going to go and fill in the Because
future data is where we stored the other
consequence of the fetch cool.
It's problem that has an effect in
JavaScript that lets us keep track
consistently with what we're
doing in the background.
I love that.
Look at that consistency,
doing something in the background.
Got a nice promise object
in the foreground,
in JavaScript to keep track of it.
You know what, it's going to be updated
its value property when the background
work complete, just as Peter said.
So future data, your value
will be whatever comes back
from the background work, but
that background work at one
millisecond is so far from being done.
And imagine if we had to wait for
it in the foreground in JavaScript, or
we'd be sitting there for while,
probably turning 70 milliseconds.
And our language would be very pragmatic,
but instead.
By the way, well done everybody we almost
finished all the fetch stuff relatively,
comfortably.